SC01 Notes (DOT1 Homework)
==========================

**MP3 Culture of Engagement**

_Ignore the rest of these notes for now_

Flow of Communication:
----------------------

*Upward communication:* Low-High flow of comm; (e.g. Amn wants to use chain of communication to deliver a message to Lt, goes through supervisor, etc).

*Downward communication:* High-Low flow of comm; opposite of Upward.

*Lateral communication:* Essentially squadron to squadron comms to get mission done. (E.g., amn in comm talks to amn in CE to dig trenches to run fiber).

Organizational Barriers:
------------------------

*Environmental Noise:* Cellphones going off, videos in the background, construction, etc.

*Weak communication Policies:* Organizational based; your people just don't know how, what or who to communicate to.

*Autocratic Management:* Supervisors straight up don't listen to their underlings


Psychological Barriers:
-----------------------

* Personality
* Values
* Language
* Abstractions
* Ambiguous Terms
* Lack of Common Core of Experience

Miscellaneous Barriers:
-----------------------

* Gender
* Age
* Race
* Emotions/Overreaction
* Environmental Distractions
* Critizing
* Attacking _people_ instead of _problems_
 
Phases of effective Communication:
----------------------------------

*Diagnosing Communication:*
1. Analyze audience
2. What are you trying to communicate? Are you directing, informing, persuading, or inspiring?
3. Once decided on what you are trying to communicate, place emphasis & tone.

*Preparing & delivering communication*
1. Introduction
	* Introductory statement (Who you are)
	* Purpose statement (What you are about to talk about)
		a. What reason am I writing this?
		b. what is the idea I want to get people to understand?
		c. What is the response I want from my audience?
	* Motivation/Hook (The Why)
	* Overview (The Road Map)
	* Transitions (Links ideas together)		
2. Body (Main points)
	* Support Material (Remember that the topic sentence is **Always** the first line of paragraphs in your body.
		a. Personal knowledge/experience
		b. Common Knowledge (No need to acknowledge source). For example, the twin towers being hit on September 11th.
		c. Folk literature
		d. Common Sense Observations
			- Statistics
			- Comparisons
			- Explanations/Definitions
			- Evaluating Sources
3. Conclusion
	* Summary (Brief summary/review of *all* main points)
	* Restatement of Purpose
	* Closure

Writing/Speaking notes:
-----------------------

* OPSEC
* Primary source for formatting is The Tongue and Quill (2015)
* Plain bond paper
* Times New Roman, size 12
* Double space sentences
* 1 inch margins-- Top, bottom, and sides.
* Outside sources if applicable (Tongue & Quill or other ALS sources may be used as sources, but do not count as outside sources)

